README.md, before:

# Subscription Tracker Web App

A full-stack web application that helps users manage and track their digital subscriptions. Users can log services like Netflix, Spotify, or iCloud, monitor payment details, and keep track of monthly and yearly expenses in one centralized dashboard.

## Demo
> *Local project only. No live link currently.*

---

## Features
- ✅ Add, edit, and delete subscriptions
- 📊 Track monthly and yearly expenses
- 🔍 Sort by name, due date, price, or category
- 🧾 Modal-based form for clean user input
- 🗂️ Relational database schema with normalization
- 📈 Real-time statistics display

---

## Tech Stack

| Frontend       | Backend         | Database | Tools                   |
|----------------|------------------|----------|--------------------------|
| HTML, CSS, JS  | Node.js (Express) | MySQL    | Git, npm, MySQL Workbench |

---

## Folder Structure

```
project/
├── public/
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── home.html
│   ├── script.js
│   ├── style.css
│   ├── assets/ (e.g. icons, logos)
├── server.js
├── queries.js
├── package.json
├── database_schema.sql
└── README.md
```

---

## Database Schema

The MySQL database uses five core tables:
- `Users`
- `Subscription_Category`
- `Subscription_Plan`
- `Payment_Method`
- `Subscriptions`

Seed data is included in `database_schema.sql`.

---

## Getting Started

### 1. Clone the repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/subscription-tracker.git
cd subscription-tracker
```

### 2. Install dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Set up MySQL database
- Run the SQL setup in `database_schema.sql` using MySQL Workbench or CLI.
- Create a `.env` file in the root of your project with the following:
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_USER=root
DB_PASSWORD=yourpassword
DB_NAME=SubscriptionTracker
> You can refer to `.env.sample` in the project for structure.

### 4. Run the server
```bash
node server.js
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000` in your browser.

---

## Notes
- This project is not deployed yet
- Frontend uses vanilla JS (no frameworks)
- Designed as a learning project for full-stack fundamentals
- This project uses a `.env` file to store database credentials securely.
- Be sure to add your own `.env` file.

---

## Author
**Kuvo Abillar**  
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kuvo)  
Email: kuvo.work.dev@gmail.com

Commit message:

Update README with .env setup and add screenshots
- Replaced raw DB config lines with properly formatted .env code block
- Added note to refer to `.env.sample`
- Added three UI screenshots (home, modal, index) to public folder
- Updated package-lock.json due to installing dotenv

README.md, after:

# Subscription Tracker Web App

A full-stack web application that helps users manage and track their digital subscriptions. Users can log services like Netflix, Spotify, or iCloud, monitor payment details, and keep track of monthly and yearly expenses in one centralized dashboard.

## Demo
> *Local project only. No live link currently.*

---

## Features
- ✅ Add, edit, and delete subscriptions
- 📊 Track monthly and yearly expenses
- 🔍 Sort by name, due date, price, or category
- 🧾 Modal-based form for clean user input
- 🗂️ Relational database schema with normalization
- 📈 Real-time statistics display

---

## Tech Stack

| Frontend       | Backend         | Database | Tools                   |
|----------------|------------------|----------|--------------------------|
| HTML, CSS, JS  | Node.js (Express) | MySQL    | Git, npm, MySQL Workbench |

---

## Folder Structure

```
project/
├── public/
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── home.html
│   ├── script.js
│   ├── style.css
│   ├── assets/ (e.g. icons, logos)
├── server.js
├── queries.js
├── package.json
├── database_schema.sql
└── README.md
```

---

## Database Schema

The MySQL database uses five core tables:
- `Users`
- `Subscription_Category`
- `Subscription_Plan`
- `Payment_Method`
- `Subscriptions`

Seed data is included in `database_schema.sql`.

---

## Getting Started

### 1. Clone the repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/subscription-tracker.git
cd subscription-tracker
```

### 2. Install dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Set up MySQL database
- Run the SQL setup in `database_schema.sql` using MySQL Workbench or CLI.
- Create a `.env` file in the root of your project with the following:

	```env
	DB_HOST=localhost
	DB_USER=root
	DB_PASSWORD=yourpassword
	DB_NAME=SubscriptionTracker
	```
	
> You can refer to .env.sample in the project for structure.

### 4. Run the server
```bash
node server.js
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000` in your browser.

---

## Notes
- This project is not deployed yet
- Frontend uses vanilla JS (no frameworks)
- Designed as a learning project for full-stack fundamentals
- This project uses a `.env` file to store database credentials securely.
- Be sure to add your own `.env` file.

---

## Screenshots

### Index
<img src="public/screenshot-index.jpg" width="700"/>

### Home Page
<img src="public/screenshot-home.jpg" width="700"/>

### Add Subscription Modal
<img src="public/screenshot-modal.jpg" width="700"/>

---

## Author
**Kuvo Abillar**  
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kuvo)  
Email: kuvo.work.dev@gmail.com
